The CIA actively seeks to hire people
who have sociopathic tendencies. After
9/11, everybody went nuts.
Bush is saying, "No, we don't torture."
He looks in the camera, "We do not
torture." It's all a lie. The president
was a bald-faced liar. If I'm convicted,
what am I looking at? And they said, "12
to 18 years."
Everybody comes out of prison with PTSD.
And if you're a cop, you're going to get
a beat down. I made strategic alliances
from the minute I walked through the
door. And so, why did you do it? Did you
have a
>> Because I was right. Every document that
remains classified has the word Israel
in it.
>> [music]
>> What do you think about Epstein? I
believe [music] very strongly that Gaza.
Does torture work? Do you work for you
today? Are you a good liar?
Hey guys, it's Carlos. Hey, we have got
a terrific new episode all with John
Kiriakou, the world-famous former CIA
spy. And look, he's talking about all
new things about how Louis Farrakhan,
yes, that Louis Farrakhan, saved his
life, a dramatic story about JFK's
assassination, and his mind what's
really going on in Iran, and the rest of
that his wife is cheating story. That's
right, you're going to find out what
happened with Stelios. You don't want to
miss it. All new John Kiriakou straight
ahead. He is back, Emmy Award-winning
journalist. [music]
He's interviewed presidents, rebels,
icons, thinkers. He is Carlos Watson.
Did you stay in the Middle East your
whole ride? Yeah. And even in Athens, I
did 2 years in Athens, but that was
besides 17 November, that was
the Abu Nidal organization, the Libyans,
Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine, PFLP General Command.
>> that was going on in Greece? Oh, they
were Greece was the most dangerous place
in the world
>> [music]
>> in the late 1990s. We spent more money
on security in Athens than we spent
[music] in Beirut.
People don't know that.
>> Why was Greece so dangerous?
>> Because the socialist government of
Andreas Papandreou [music]
told all the Arab terrorist groups, "You
can pass through here if you [music]
don't kill Greeks."
They didn't care if they killed
Americans.
So, there we are. And so, [music] how
good a spy were you?
I'll tell you my station chief's words
rather than my own. I've I'm very proud
[music] of this. He put me aside one day
and he said, "I've been in the agency
for 25 years.
And I've made nine quality recruitments.
I remember every single one of them."
He said, "You've [music] been here for 2
years
and you've recruited five people.
Badasses.
Terrorists.
>> [music]
>> He said, "You have a knack for this."
And I told him, "I have never in my life
been so happy and fulfilled in a job
as I am here." So, so for 15 years you
were fired up to go to work.
>> Yeah. I remember
I remember [music]
I was at the agency
8 months.
And [music] it's August 2nd, 1990.
The Iraqis have just invaded Kuwait 4
hours earlier.
I get to the office early and my boss
[music] says, "Don't take your jacket
off. We're going to go to the White
House." I said, "Cool. I've never been
to the White House." I mean,
>> [music]
>> as a tourist I had, but I'd never been
there like for business.
We get in the [music] car. It's about
7:00 in the morning. Drive to the White
House. This Marine is there at the door,
the West Wing.
He escorts us [music] in straight into
the Oval Office.
There's the president, the vice
president, the national security [music]
adviser, the CIA director, and then my
boss and me. The president says,
"Gentlemen, please sit."
So, we all sit and I'm looking around
and I remember saying to myself,
"My friends [music] would never believe
me if I told them where I was right now.
Never believe me."
So, the president says, [music] "Well,
now what do we do?"
And then everybody turns and looks at
me.
And it took [music] me a second and I
said,
"Oh, um
Mr. President, as you know,
>> [music]
>> Iraqi troops I have chills right now
thinking of it, just remembering it. I
said, "Iraqi troops crossed the Kuwaiti
border
uh at 2:00 in the morning. They seized
[music] the entirety of Kuwait. The
royal family has fled to Saudi Arabia,
you know, blah, blah, blah, blah."
And he says,
"Do we know who is in [music] charge in
Kuwait right now?" I said, "Yes, sir, we
do. The Iraqis made an announcement that
Dr. Ahmed Khatib
uh is now the occupation [music]
governor of Iraq."
"Do we know anything about him?" I said,
"Yes, sir." I had actually written an
article about him a month earlier just
because he was interesting [music]
to me.
I said, "Yes, sir. He's a medical
doctor.
He hates the royal family because his
mother was a slave [music]
uh in the household of the royal family.
They had slavery until 1955 [music]
in the uh on the Arabian Peninsula. So,
I said, "She's a Sudan- She was a
Sudanese slave. Uh to sort of make up
for it once slavery ended, they sent
[music]
Ahmed to the American University of
Beirut. He trained there as a doctor.
But, his college roommate was George
Habash.
And together [music] they founded the
Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine."
And the vice president [music] says,
"Jesus Christ!" like that.
And the president just goes like this
and he says, "Gentlemen, thank you.
That'll be enough.
I need to think [music] about this."
Well, later that afternoon, Margaret
Thatcher [music] famously now called
him.
He genuinely didn't know what to do.
[music]
And you're talking about Papa Bush. Papa
Bush. Yeah. And she said, "George, now's
not the time to go wobbly."
Next thing you know, [music]
we have six aircraft carrier battle
groups on on their way to the Gulf,
>> [music]
>> quarter of a million ground troops,
and we liberated Kuwait
>> [music]
>> February 1991.
Wow. Wow. And and you played a role in
that at How were you 30 yet? I was 26.
And did And did you Was there any part
of you that's like, "I shouldn't be
here. I don't really know
>> god.
>> saying"? Oh, everybody has imposter
syndrome. All of us did. I remember
thinking,
you know,
"Why me? Who am I? I'm just some guy
from Pennsylvania."
And here I am sitting with the
president, telling the president what to
do.
But, you know,
I
I liked it. I enjoyed it. It was
exciting.
I was on a plane once
from
Milan
to Sofia, Bulgaria.
I never talk to people on planes. I
just, you know, put in my earbuds, read
a book, whatever. You did that purposely
not to blow your Not to blow my cover.
Okay.
And there's this guy next to me, this
Italian guy, and he's blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah the whole
flight. And And I'm trying to give him
one-word answers. And What they taught
us in training is
they ask you what you do for a living,
just tell them something that's so
boring that they don't ask follow-up
questions.
>> [laughter]
>> Cuz usually I'd say,
"Oh, I I'm involved in training. We we
train people, you know, who do
international trade and import-export."
And And people are like, "Oh, that
sounds great." And then that's the end
of it. So, this guy ta-da, ta-da, ta-da,
finally I said,
"Okay, look.
I smuggle women and cigarettes from
Eastern Europe. Are you happy now?"
And he goes, "Well,
I don't think I approve." I said, "I
didn't ask your approval."
And then he just kind of sat there like
this the rest of the flight. And I
thought to myself, "Finally.
But, at least I didn't blow my cover."
>> Yeah. Yeah. Hey guys, I think a bunch of
you know that I'm on a health journey
these days. I'm trying to cook
different, maybe try and exercise a
little bit differently, trying to walk
more, even trying to sleep better. But,
even with all of that, my favorite
cousin kept pushing me. She said you
should consider supplements. And if I'm
honest, I was a little bit hesitant. I
don't know whether it's because I was
busy or that I just didn't want more
stuff in my body. But, recently I found
something really beautiful. If you
haven't tried Dose before, this is a
wonderful supplement. It's about 2 oz. A
lot of folks say it tastes like mango
with a little bit of kick in it. It's
got beautiful things like turmeric and
ginger and lemon, all sorts of goodness
in it. And it's great if you've got
cholesterol issues like yours truly or
even if you're just thinking about kind
of general liver health. Look, I'm no
doctor, but I know that good stuff is
good stuff. And so, I hope you'll
consider this. And if you do, tell them
that Carlos sent you. Go ahead and get
35% off. Enjoy it. Enjoy it. And enjoy
it.
And so, your rising or you on your way
to becoming the director of the CIA?
Yeah, I wish. I mean I mean were you on
that trajectory? Like would Like would
someone reviewing the the rising young
superstars have have tabbed you as one
of the rising young superstars?
>> No, that is a very, very political
position. And there have only been
three, I guess, directors over the years
who were career CIA officers. Everybody
else has been an outsider.
A former FBI director, lots of generals,
which I think is always like
historically been a big mistake.
>> And why would they want generals?
I don't know. You get four shiny stars
on your shoulder and they think that
you're Superman, you can do anything.
And it was my experience that
people became four-star generals by
saying, "Yes, sir."
You don't want somebody in that position
to say, "Yes, sir." You want somebody in
that position who can say, "Mr.
President, let me tell you why that's a
terrible idea."
Right? You need somebody with the the
wherewithal to stand up to the policy
makers. So, it's so clear to me that you
still love and revere the work that you
did and that you were one of the
fortunate people in this life who
actually got to do something that they
both dreamed of. I thoroughly enjoyed my
career. Yeah, you you you enjoyed it.
>> But
after 9/11,
everybody went nuts.
They just went nuts.
They acted like
the law, whether domestic or or
international, meant nothing to us. We
were the good guys, we had been wronged,
we were going to take revenge.
And you're either with us or you're
against us. And if you're against us,
then get out. I know that torture and
the question around torture ends up
becoming a place where you you you raise
your hand and where you object. And I
know that that ultimately metastasized,
but just give us a version of that for
people who don't know the story. Well, I
was one of 14 people asked if I wanted
to be trained in the use of what they
called enhanced interrogation
techniques. I was the only one of the 14
who said no. I believed it was illegal.
Besides being immoral and unethical, I
thought it was illegal. It was illegal.
It was clearly illegal. Any can
read the law that we wrote, the the
Federal Torture Act of 1946. Anybody can
read the the United Nations Convention
Against Torture and Cruel and Inhumane
Treatment.
And
I mean, it it doesn't get any clearer
clearer than that. Take me take me
through torture. So, you're one of 14
people who they asked
they they ask, "Do you want to get
trained in this?" And you're like, "No,
it's illegal." Take Take me Yeah.
Buddy of mine, uh in the
Counterterrorism Center, who happened to
be
a psychiatrist,
MD, PhD, and a Brigadier General in the
Army.
And we go to the same church, we're in
the same men's group. He said to me one
day, "Buddy, you know, um you know, they
call you the human rights guy behind
your back."
And I said, "Yeah, I know."
And he said, "You know that's not a
compliment, right?"
And I said, "Steve, I'm right
and they're wrong.
And I'm comfortable with my position."
Well,
that was not the popular position to
take.
And so,
they kind of squeezed me out. But I had
done so well in Pakistan that I became
the Executive Assistant to the Deputy
Director for Operations.
So, um
my career just continued
to go straight up. So, that was a big
deal though to raise your hand on a
question of principle.
>> one. And you and your career still keeps
going well? Because I had a rabbi
who
My dad My dad always says that My dad
always says, "You don't need a mentor,
you need a rabbi or an angel."
>> That's it. Yeah. He sat above the guys
making these torture decisions.
And he said, "Don't worry about it." He
said, "You did the right thing." He
called it a slippery slope. He said,
"You know how these guys are. Somebody's
going to kill a prisoner and then
they're going to go to they're going to
go to prison."
And what exactly were they doing? Like
I've heard the word waterboarding, but
like for someone who again has never
been in the room. Okay, so let's say you
are laying on this slab of of granite
right here, but it's slightly elevated,
so your feet are a little bit higher
than your than your head. They'll wrap
your your face and head in material,
a towel, you know, whatever.
Tie you down so you can't move
and then pour water on your face.
So, water gets in your mouth, you start
to drown.
W- With in the case of Abu Zubaydah, he
actually did drown. His heart stopped.
He had to be revived so they can torture
him more.
What is that?
That's who we want to be.
Right? Ronald Reagan said we're a
shining city on a hill.
We're this shining beacon of hope for
human rights and civil rights and civil
liberties.
Are we really?
But I know some people and I'm assuming
Dick Cheney types came to you and said,
"Come on, John. Cut the shit." And I
said I said, "If you want to be for
torture, knock yourself out, but you
have to change the law because the law
is clear. We executed
Japanese soldiers who had waterboarded
American POWs in the Second World War.
That was a death penalty crime.
In January of 1968,
the Washington Post ran a front-page
photograph of an American soldier
waterboarding a North Vietnamese
prisoner.
Uh Robert S. McNamara was the Secretary
of Defense. He ordered an investigation.
That soldier was arrested. He was
convicted of torture and sent to
Leavenworth for 20 years.
But then in 2002, uh no, it's fine. It's
all legal. Does torture work? No. See,
and that's the biggest thing.
Even if you think, "Well, you know,
these guys are really bad. They mean us
harm. They're murderers, mass
murderers."
Okay, fine. It doesn't work.
So then, you know, when people that
we're torturing give us this meaningless
information,
we bog down analysts for months
trying to get through it. What's
nonsense, what's real,
you know, what's a half-truth, because
they're going to tell you anything they
think you want to hear just to get you
to stop torturing them. So, when people
tell us that they did get real stuff for
some of these top guys, you're saying
that that's
>> It's
>> That they did not get actionable FBI got
the actionable intelligence. And the way
they did it was by saying, "Would you
like a cup of coffee?
If you're really good, you tell me what
I want to know, I'll let you write a
letter to your mom and dad.
Would you like a cigarette
or an orange?"
And you establish a rapport with people
and treat them with respect and the next
thing you know, you can't shut them up.
E- Even seasoned hardcore Especially
seasoned hardcore terrorists because
they know that the gig is up.
So, there I I said this to Abu Zubaydah.
I said, "Listen,
I am the nicest guy that you're going to
meet in this experience.
My colleagues are not nice like I am.
You know
you that your life is over.
So, what's left of it, it can be easy or
it can be terrible.
It's up to you." How do you end up in
jail? How is that possible? Brian Ross
of of ABC News called me and said that
he had a source who said that I had
tortured Abu Zubaydah. I said that was
absolutely untrue. I was kind Zubaydah.
I was the only person.
>> Did he really have it or do you think he
was bullshitting you? He was baiting
you. No, he had a source.
I ended up going to work for Brian at
ABC. I was the counterterrorism
consultant at ABC for 3 years. He was
telling the truth.
So, he said, "Well, you're welcome to
come on the show and defend yourself." I
had never spoken to a journalist before.
I I didn't know that was an old trick
that they use.
So,
the Red Cross, Amnesty International and
Human Rights Watch had all come out with
papers, with studies saying the CIA's
got a torture program.
And they kept saying, "No, no, no,
there's no torture." Bush is saying,
"No, we don't torture." He looks in the
camera, "We do not torture." It's all a
lie.
So,
I called Brian. I said, "I'll give you
your interview."
And I decided, "Whatever he asks me, I'm
going to tell the truth."
Well, I I said that the CIA was
torturing its prisoners, that torture
was official policy, and that the policy
had been personally approved by the
president himself. The president was a
bald-faced liar.
You said that? Yeah. And the president
said the next day, it was kind of funny
to me. He said, "I don't know this man.
I've not met this man. I don't know why
this man would throw me under the bus."
And was it true? Did you know W? No, I
had never met him.
But he was a war criminal.
So,
the FBI began investigating me the very
next day, the day after the Did Did you
know that they were that by virtue of
you saying that that was going to
happen? Like had you been in the
apparatus long enough?
>> Yes. And so, why did you do it? Did you
have a
>> Because I was right.
They were criminals. They were breaking
the law. We are either going to be a
nation of laws or we're not. We're going
to be a nation of chaos.
And I don't want to be
the citizen of a country that exists in
a state of chaos.
One of my former bosses called me and
said,
"You know the shit's going to hit the
fan now, right?" And I said, "I know.
I'm ready for it." And then a retired
Deputy Director of the CIA emailed me. I
saved the email as a souvenir.
And he said, "You've chosen a difficult
road.
I'm glad somebody did. I only wish I had
had the courage to do it myself."
So, they investigated me for a year
and the Justice Department determined
that because we have a law in this
country saying that it is illegal to
classify a crime,
and torture is a crime,
that I hadn't committed any crime.
Three weeks later, Barack Obama becomes
president and a couple of weeks after
that, John Brennan becomes the Deputy
National Security Advisor for
Counterterrorism. John and I always
hated each other.
And he was one of the fathers of the
torture program.
He was the Executive Director of the CIA
when they came up with it. He was the
number three in the CIA.
He sent a memo to Eric Holder, the new
Attorney General, saying,
"Charge him with espionage."
And Holder wrote back and said, "My
people don't think he committed
espionage."
And Brennan wrote back and said, "Charge
him anyway and make him defend himself."
They investigated me for 3 more years,
tapped my phones, intercepted my emails,
followed me everywhere I went for 3
years.
>> You were aware of this?
>> I was not. I thought it was over because
we got a declination letter from DOJ
saying we found no crime, you're free to
go.
>> But but hold on, you're super
sophisticated guy, you followed people
yourself.
>> I was an instructor in surveillance. And
you weren't aware that they were
following you for 3 years? They were
that good? Not around my own house. It's
just I wasn't looking for it. Overseas,
I was constantly looking in my side view
mirrors, constantly. Not in Arlington,
Virginia.
>> And you didn't have any friends
whispering to you saying, "Hey John."
Nobody said a word.
So they arrested me in January of 2012,
charged me with five felonies including
three counts of espionage, which can
carry the death penalty, I might add.
And um they waited until I went bankrupt
from legal fees and then they dropped
the espionage charges.
I hadn't committed espionage.
Telling the news that the CIA's
committing crimes, that's not espionage.
So how do you end up inside though? How
Because they told me that they had
dropped the charges without prejudice.
And if I didn't take a plea, they had to
save face. If I didn't take a plea to a
lesser charge, they were going to
recharge me with espionage. If I'm
convicted of espionage, what am I
looking at? And they said 12 to 18
years. Take the deal.
One of my
a little angry with me and he right in
my face and he said, "You know what your
problem is? Your problem is you think
this is about justice and it's not about
justice. It's about mitigating damage.
Take the deal."
So I took the deal.
In retrospect, did you do the right
thing?
>> Yeah. You should have taken the
>> I had five kids.
You should have taken the deal.
>> Absolutely. Because You can't win. They
have a literally unlimited budget.
They charged me in a federal court where
no national security defendant has ever
won a case.
And overall, the DOJ, according to
ProPublica, wins 98.2%
of its cases. Yeah.
It's crazy and most Americans don't know
that.
>> Yeah. You don't have a chance. The
director of counterterrorism at the CIA
the the night before I went to prison
tweeted at me.
And he said, "Don't drop the soap. Haha
with a laughing emoji." He he tweeted
that?
>> Yeah.
And I gave myself an hour or two to calm
down.
And then I tweeted back at him and I
said, "Jose, I am on the right side of
history
and you are not."
And then I went to prison the next
morning. And so what was prison like for
you for as for a former CIA officer?
>> Groundhog Day.
I was I was lucky in that I used my CIA
training to stay safe. I I made
strategic alliances from the minute I
walked through the door. Was there a
chance you would not have been safe?
Oh, yeah.
Really? People are generally pretty
stupid in prison and CIA, FBI, you're
all cops to them.
And if you're a cop, you're going to get
a beatdown.
But one of the Italians
God bless him. I just talked to him this
morning. He um he took it upon himself.
He saw an article in the New York Times
saying I was going to arrive at that
prison and he took it upon himself to go
to every single one of the Italians and
say, "There's a guy coming here. He's a
CIA guy. He's not an FBI agent. FBI are
cops and rats. The CIA protected us from
the Muslims."
And they're like, "Oh,
okay." And they adopted me.
And then the Nation of Islam
I say in my second book this perfectly
timed statement from Louis Farrakhan
saying that I was a hero of the Muslim
people for standing up for human rights.
It saved me from the Muslims.
So the Aryans called me the Muslim
hunter cuz this rumor got around that I
I was a an assassin killing Muslims. The
Muslims loved me cuz I stood up for
human rights.
All that left was the Mexican cartel
guys and one of them asked me if I would
write his appeal and I did. He lost. He
was guilty. But I didn't charge him
anything and so he told all the other
cartel guys that I was a good guy.
Did you ever think that your life was in
danger while you were inside?
If it ever was, it was cuz of the
crooked violent guards, not from any of
the prisoners. So you get out and you're
a normal healthy person or No, I you
know, this is the thing about being
released from prison. You think you can
step back into your life again and you
can't. Your life is never going to be
the same. Because
cuz you're not the same.
You know, everybody comes out of prison
with PTSD, everybody. I can't tell you
how many times I woke up in the middle
of the night
having the same dream that it's count
time and I find myself outside the
prison and I have to figure out how to
get back in to be in my bunk in time for
count time or they're going to send me
to solitary and I can't figure out how
to get back inside.
I dreamed for 2 years after I got out.
But then, you know, it wears off and
you start thinking about
patching together a career and my
marriage didn't survive it, but um
Sorry. Yeah, yeah, me too. Thank you.
But uh
Who are you to Who are you today?
You know, I I like who I am.
I'm I'm not perfect. Um I can be a an
judgmental
Um
but on this one issue
I was right and they were wrong. Is the
Trump team better on torture and these
kinds of issues?
They are in an odd way. Trump sometimes
makes the wrong statements.
"I'm going to bring back waterboarding
and a hell of a lot worse." No, you're
not. You're talking tough, but no, he
never did any of that stuff. He made
a mistake twice in his first term
appointing very, very bad people as CIA
director. Very bad. Like
Mike Pompeo, oh my god. The only person
less popular than Mike Pompeo at the CIA
was Mrs. Mike Pompeo. Let me tell you. I
got that from one of his bodyguards.
And then Gina Haspel
>> Wait wait wait, why? Why?
You.
Go get my my dry cleaning. You. Go walk
my dog. They're like, "Lady, we don't
work for you. We're protecting your
husband. We're not going to go get your
dry cleaning and walk your dog."
Um the other one was bloody Gina Haspel.
We called her bloody Gina for a good
reason. She flew out to the secret site
to sit in on one of the torture sessions
just because she could.
Just to sit there and enjoy it and take
it all in.
What kind of sick person does something
like that?
>> So so what does that say to you and and
and how do you communicate that to your
son if you're only going to have one
last conversation with him? What are you
going to say to him
>> Yeah. if this is true?
There's a there's a saying in ancient
Greek um
that translates to know thyself.
Right? You really have to trust
yourself. Of course, we all make
mistakes, very big mistakes.
I have, certainly. But you have to trust
your gut.
Like listen, deep down, we all know
the difference between right and wrong,
all of us.
The hard part is actually implementing
the right
when it's not
expedient.
Hey Bev.
So I wanted to follow up on Vegas. When
are you thinking about that for the
trip? What days? So I'm thinking either
the 20th or the 21st. Does that work for
you? I think it does as long as it's
early enough in the month. I think that
probably works.
>> Wait one second. Um
do you mind giving me that Dose please?
Wait, what did you just say? It's this
really wonderful um supplement for
cholesterol called Dose. Have you seen
it?
This is so crazy. I feel like I'm
literally Bev seeing this everywhere. It
is wild.
>> in Turkey because a friend told me. It
actually tastes like mango, a little bit
of spicy cuz it has turmeric. It helps
with cholesterol. Okay. All right. Well,
I obviously need to do that. That damn
Dose is everywhere.
Hey man. Hey man, how you doing? Good.
Good. How you been? I've been doing
great, man. Is that you?
Oh, that's us.
Oh, wow.
Are you using that? Yes. Man, everybody
is, man.
It is crazy. I I had not heard about it
until a couple months ago and now I feel
like everybody's using it. Damn, I may
need to start trying it. Oh, we do.
Yeah. Like that.
>> You want one? You have it here? Man,
stop, man. I got just what you need.
>> Okay. All right. Oh, you got the little
fancy things, huh?
>> Okay. All right.
>> Okay, little shot of something. Mhm.
Okay. You Can I actually have this?
Man, come on, man. All right. Okay. All
right. You don't have to tell me once.
>> What's step back and watch out.
You sure this is good for me? Oh, it's
good. Okay. All right. It'll be good to
you.
Tastes a little like mango. Okay. But
with a little bite. Okay. It's like this
has some pepper in this.
>> Ain't nothing like getting bit.
>> [laughter]
>> What made you start um
start on this?
Man, I'm I'm 60 I'm getting ready to be
65 years old on Monday. Happy birthday
early.
>> That's right. So this is Do you think
this is giving you a little something?
Oh man, it's going to be a part of my
life for a long time. Yeah, man, what
what do you want, man? Uh same thing.
Same thing. Same thing. Make me
beautiful. Well.
>> [music]
>> Bob Kennedy told me a story that just
sticks right here in the front of my
head. He said on November 22nd
that terrible day, his mother picked him
up from school early. He was in sixth or
seventh grade. She picked him up from
school early and brought him back home.
They lived in McLean, Virginia at
a house that they called Hickory Hill.
So
the Kennedys were very, very close to
the CIA director
and his wife,
John McCone.
And Mrs. McCone had died of breast
cancer 6 months earlier. And the
Kennedys were worried about Director
McCone. They were worried that he was
going to hurt harm himself.
And so they invited him to dinner every
single night, 7 days a week. And after
dinner, he and Bobby Kennedy Sr. would
go for a swim.
So, when Bob Jr. and his mom get to the
house, he said he got out of the car,
his dad and Director McCone were
standing in the driveway. And when he
walked past them,
he heard his father say,
"Tell me your people didn't do this."
And McCone said, "I don't know who did
it."
He didn't say, "Of course my people
didn't do it." He said, "I don't know
who did it."
And I think that what with what we know
now,
I think it's safe to assume that there
were elements of the CIA. It was not an
official, formal CIA policy, you know,
XV kill the president.
I think that there there were elements
of the CIA
uh
that were probably involved. And I'll
add one other thing. When I was
stationed in Pakistan,
the oldest of the old-timers that I
worked with
was this legendary officer. To tell you
the truth, when I got there, I didn't
get his last name. So, I only called him
Jean. Hi John, this is Jean. Jean, this
is John. I said, "Hi Jean, nice to nice
to know you. Good to work with you."
And I was there for weeks until somebody
said, I asked a question and somebody
said, "Ask Gately." I said, "Who's
Gately?" Jean.
I said, "Jean, is Jean Gately?"
He said, "Yeah, who'd you think he was?"
I said, "The commander of the Bay of
Pigs operation
is working for me."
And he said, "Yeah."
So, we all lived in the same guest
house. It was a very small guest house.
So, we would have breakfast together, go
to the office, have dinner together.
So, I went up to him and I said, "Jean,
you're Jean Gately?
You commanded the Bay of Pigs?"
And he says to me, "Fucking Kennedy. We
could have won that thing."
And that was the very first time I ever
saw that kind of that flash of anger.
And I thought, "Oh, I I understand
1963." Do you think LBJ was involved?
You know, to me that just seems like a
bridge too far. But the people that I
know who believe that LBJ was involved
do have some compelling evidence, I
guess.
And what what do you say about the
Israelis being involved?
I I've come to believe that the Israelis
were involved. And why? What what would
what would their stake have been in it
and their success?
>> livid that John Kennedy not only would
not give them a nuclear weapon, but
would have not allowed them to develop a
nuclear weapon.
But wouldn't there be enormous risk for
them in taking out an American leader?
>> Oh, yeah.
Enormous, like incalculable risk. Yes.
And so why would you do it anyhow?
Because they saw it as a matter of their
own survival. Remember, the whole idea
was that the Arabs were going to push
them into the sea. There wouldn't be one
Jew left.
And so
>> Oh oh oh, hence from the river to the
sea.
From the Jordan to the Mediterranean.
Yes.
Yeah.
>> Wow.
Wow.
>> I I'll add something. There I have a
friend at the White House.
And
we were talking, I'm going to say this
was
this was almost a year ago.
And I said offhandedly, "Thank God the
president released all the remaining
Kennedy documents cuz now we know all
this stuff about Oswald and James
Angleton that we never knew." And he
said to me, "He didn't release all of
it." And I said, "Yeah, he did, kind of
famously so."
He said, "No, he didn't."
I said, "What's left?" And he said,
"Every document that remains classified
has the word Israel in it."
And I said, "Damn it. I was hoping they
weren't involved."
But but let me ask you this because
again, you are a super sophisticated
guy.
Like if I heard someone say that they
released all the documents, whether it's
about Epstein, whether it's about
Kennedy, whether it's about whatever,
I don't really believe that they
released all of
>> Just like I didn't believe it with
Clinton, with Bush Bush II rather, with
Obama.
You know, Congress passed this law
saying you have to release all the
documents. Even Biden.
But Trump was just so public
about his
desire to release the information.
You know, like Hillary Clinton was with
the UFO information. On my first day,
I'm going to sign an executive order,
we're going to know about the UFOs. I
was like, okay, finally, finally. Plus,
my God, 60 years had passed.
And now, after 60 years, it's just too
much. Did you Did anyone ever try to
flip you?
No. And you know, you're trained to
expect it to come. When Robert Hanssen,
the FBI traitor, who was also the chief
of counterintelligence
in the FBI,
when he started ratting out sources and
they started getting executed,
as the chief of counterintelligence, he
said, "It's that CIA guy, Brian Kelly."
Brian Kelly being the chief of
counterintelligence at the CIA. So, poor
Brian,
they put him on a leave without pay.
They surround his house 24 hours a day
with FBI agents. Other FBI agents go to
Oregon, where his daughter was working
in a nursing home, to tell her, "You
have to get your father to confess
because if we arrest him without a
confession, we're going to ask for the
death penalty."
And Brian's like, "I don't know what's
happening here.
It's not me."
And then it turned out it was Hanssen.
How long did it take for that to get
unraveled?
>> A year and a half.
Wow. So, what what is it about the
director of counterintelligence role
that makes a person particularly
susceptible to flip?
You have to be like so clean in your
personal life that it it has to be like
epic, noteworthy. No drinking, no drugs,
no gambling, no no speeding, no cheating
on your wife. Literally nothing that can
be used against you.
You know, there's a famous story they
told us in training
about uh
an ayatollah
that they wanted to uh flip.
And so they hired a prostitute to sort
of just bump into him and take him back
to a hotel. And they, you know, in
flagrante delicto, they took pictures
from hidden cameras. And then they
confronted him. And they laid out all
these pictures of him butt naked with
this prostitute. And he said, "Oh, I'll
take an 8 by 10 of that one and two 5
[laughter] by 7s of that one."
Yeah.
>> [clears throat]
>> And that's when they realized, you know,
we got to we got to get our house in
order here. Wow. Yeah. Wow. It it may
not flip an Iranian, but it it could
flip one of us. Is it the pressure of
cuz people like me only get to see it on
TV or in the movies. Is it Is that job
that pressurized meaning that if there's
a couple you hadn't had the kind of
heavy-duty job you had, could you guys
have worked through it? Or does that job
do such damage to marriages? And and
then also it shakes your emotions so
that when you do come to a mountain like
that, you can't get over it. No, that's
that's a good question. And I'll I'll
answer it by telling you a story. So,
when I was in Pakistan, I was the chief
of counterterrorism operations.
Extraordinarily high high stress, high
threat job. And
the hours were ridiculous. Like if if
you worked only 12 hours a day, people
would want to know, "You feeling okay?
Like what's what's the problem?" Right?
So, I would get in around 7:00 in the
morning thinking I'm going to work until
8:00 or 9:00 anyway. So, I'd get in at
7:00 in the morning. We had something
called a trunk line
where the unclassified phones in the
office
were connected to a Washington exchange.
So, even though I'm in Pakistan, I've
got a 202 number. And I I can dial a 202
number like a local call. So, I would
get in before everybody else and I would
always call my then girlfriend, my
post-divorce girlfriend, who became my
second wife. She was a senior CIA
officer.
So, um
I would always end our conversations by
saying, "Okay, love you." Mwah. And hang
up.
And one of the old-timers, there were
seven old men who worked for me.
They were all like very senior senior
intelligence service level officers. All
of them had been at least director of
Near Eastern operations. One of them had
been the deputy director of the CIA. And
they all volunteered to come back as
contractors after 9/11 just for
patriotic reasons. But if you're a
contractor, you can't have a management
position. So, they worked for me, which
is That must have been interesting. I
learned more from those guys in 6 months
than I learned in the rest of the
entirety of my career.
But anyway, one of them heard me finish
the call and hang up.
And he says,
"So, are there wedding bells in the
future?" And I said, "Oh, I don't know.
I just got divorced and I'm kind of
afraid of being a two-time loser. And he
says, "Two-time loser?
Jim, how many times have you been
married?" He says, "Four for me."
"Dave, how many times have you been
married?" "I got five."
"Bill, how many times you been married?"
"Three." And he says, "And I got four.
Don't worry about being a two-time
loser. It comes with the job." Well, the
truth is that the CIA has the highest
divorce rate in all of government
because
you are trained to lie, and you lie all
day
every day, and a lot of guys can't turn
it off when they go home at night.
>> And and so I was watching another
conversation you were having. If you
don't mind me asking, how did that end?
How did the first marriage end? Um
in April of 2000 Right.
>> [clears throat]
>> we were living in Athens.
Tough tough assignment for me because we
were critical threat for for terrorism.
Athens, Greece to be clear, not cuz
there is an Athens, Ohio. It's Ohio. I
think that's where your boy Joey
Burrow's from. Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah.
So, um
I'm shaving, getting ready for work, and
my oldest son was 6 years old at the
time. He's sitting on the floor next to
me watching me shave. And I'm asking
him, "So, what are you going to do
today? What are you going to learn
today?
You know, what what are you going to
play at the at recess?" And then he says
to me,
"I told Mommy she shouldn't kiss Uncle
Stelios on the lips. She should only
kiss you on the lips, and she told me to
mind my own business."
I felt like I had been electrocuted.
So, I wiped the shaving cream off my
face.
I went into the bedroom. She was
sleeping, and I kicked the bed.
And she says, "What?"
I said, "Who the is Stelios?"
She said, "Where did you hear that
name?" I said, "Who is he?"
And then she said, "Don't believe
everything a 6-year-old says."
And I said, "I'm going to leave
before I do something that I'm going to
regret for the rest of my life."
And so I got in the car and I went to
work.
And um
that afternoon she started calling me,
like calling me every 5 seconds.
And I just would let it go to voicemail.
Finally, the secretary came into my
office, and she said, um
"John, your wife's on the phone, and
she's crying." I said, "Yeah, she she
should be crying."
And she said, "No, no, she was in a car
accident, and she's injured."
I was like, "For God's sake." So, I she
was calling my phone again, so I picked
it up, and I said, "What?"
And she said that I'd gotten in an
accident, and I'm injured, and the kids
are crying, and
so I drove up to the accident scene.
And
the car was She was first in in a
left-hand turn lane to make a left.
There was a guy five cars back. Greeks
are very impatient drivers. She went to
make the left. He came from the back and
just T-boned her
and pushed the car up onto the sidewalk
and demolished it, and she broke her
wrist, and it was a big mess.
So, I go up there
and uh
get out of my car, my fully armored, you
know, BMW 540 with, you know, my two
guns.
And uh
and I said to him, "Steliano, what
happened
what what happened here?"
And he gets all excited. He says,
"Your wife She's a whore."
I said, "My wife is a whore?"
And then
He was in a coma for quite a while.
3 days. Oh, you had that that built up.
All Any other day I would have let it
go. Yeah. Any other day. So, I got
arrested. Right. Oh, you did? Oh, yeah.
And I
>> How do you arrest a CIA station chief?
>> No, no, I wasn't the chief. Um I I uh
I said, "Look, I have diplomatic
immunity.
So, you know, I'm sorry. I'm wrong. I
admit I'm wrong, but I have diplomatic
immunity." And they're like, "Okay, just
sit in the cell." They left the cell
door open, and they let me keep my gun,
which was nuts.
But then um
they brought me in,
and um
the guy he was clearly concussed.
He hadn't yet kind of, you know,
faded out.
That was at the hospital later, but uh
he was sitting there in a chair, and
he's just like you could see like the
the birds tweeting, you know, that from
the cartoons?
And uh
he says to me, "So, what happened?"
So, I told the story.
And then this is the police captain for
the whole station.
And he says to the to the guy,
"Is that true? You called his wife a
whore?" And he said,
"I Yes, we got in an accident. She she
yelled at me. I called her a
I did not know that it is a crime to
call a man's wife a in Greece."
And so they charged him. Wow.
And I said, "Listen,
I'm
I can't get charged cuz I have
diplomatic immunity, but but in good
conscience,
you know, please don't charge him.
I [clears throat] I beat him like almost
to death."
Um so, they ended up dropping the
charge.
He filed a lawsuit against me later, but
because I had immunity, it was just
thrown out. And uh the only fight I've
ever been in in my entire life. And she
said, "I want a divorce. I'm not living
like this anymore."
And so the plane landed in New York. I
caught a connection to Washington. She
caught a connection to Cleveland. And
that was the end of it.
Was that the end of it for Stelios, too?
Yeah.
>> [sighs]
>> Yeah, I uh They didn't wind up together.
No, no. The guy could barely read.
That was uh no. [laughter]
She was feeling lonely, and it was
because I was so focused on the job.
It was very hard to maintain a marriage
in the CIA.
>> Very much so. Very, very much so. Are
you a good liar?
I think I am a good liar. Yeah.
Why?
Why am I a good liar?
Because deep down I believe we're the
good guys.
And lying in
service of my country was something that
I I became good at.
I remember my first operational boss
telling me,
"As a general rule," he said, "never lie
to medical, finance, or security.
They'll put you in prison.
Never lie to me.
I'll put you in the hospital."
So, assume that I'm I'm one of your
sons, or assume that I'm a close brother
of yours, and we haven't seen each other
for 20 years, and you're prepping me for
the rest of my life. This may be the
only conversation we're going to get to
have. So, whatever truths you have,
you're not going to get to tell me 10
years from now, 20 years from now. Like
give me give me the stuff now. I would
tell you that
again, this is going to sound cynical,
so I apologize in advance.
Tell you that
it's been my experience that the world
is usually not what it seems.
Right? You can never get inside the head
of another human being. You just can't.
We may think we really truly know
somebody. We don't. We never know what's
going on. We never know what's going on
in people's private lives.
Um and so you always have to be wary,
and you have to be self-protective.
The CIA actively seeks to hire people
who have sociopathic tendencies.
People not sociopaths.
Sociopaths have no conscience.
People with sociopathic tendencies do
have a conscience.
They do react in a polygraph exam. But
because we believe we're the good guys,
we're happy to work in legal, moral, and
ethical gray areas.
But
sociopaths
easily slip through the the process
because you can't trip them up on a
polygraph.
They have no conscience.
So, they don't react.
That's the problem.
Sociopaths slip through. Now, you know
as well as anybody that
that sociopaths [clears throat]
are common among um C-suite officials in
companies. That's how they got to be
CEO, CFO, COO
on the backs of the people around them.
They're not the nicest people in the
world, but they're not criminals,
either, because they can they can
self-regulate.
Some people can't self-regulate,
especially when you convince yourself
that you have the power and authority of
the CIA behind you. You think you can
get away with anything.
And you can't.
So, there's a lot more criminality at
the CIA than you might imagine. A lot
more criminality. It's not just some
idiot spending $200 on his CIA credit
card to buy a prostitute. It's people
carrying out real crimes. So so Tucker
Carlson, who I know you know, I know
you're friendly with, says that he's And
I think his dad or someone was in
the intelligence um
said that he's come to believe that the
intelligence community is actively
undermining society.
I've come to the same conclusion.
Because now the CIA is weaponized
against people
that, you know, don't fit the mold.
Whether you're John who says, "Hey, wait
a minute, you know, there's a law
against torture. We probably shouldn't
be doing this."
Prison for you.
Or whether you're Donald Trump, like,
"Ah, we don't like this guy. We can't
control him.
Ah, let's
let's steal the election."
What do you think about Epstein?
I believe very strongly that he was an
an Israeli access agent.
Did he work for the CIA? No way.
Why do you say no way?
>> To to spy on whom? The CIA's job is to
collect foreign intelligence.
What foreign intelligence did he have?
He's spying on Bill Clinton and Bill
Gates and Prince Andrew?
That's the Israelis. Did he commit
suicide? I believe he did. You really
believe he did?
>> People don't realize that in the Bureau
of Prisons
everybody has his head up his ass.
The cameras never work. The guards are
always sound asleep.
This happens all the time. These
suicides, they happen like literally
every day in American prisons. Every
day.
You know, when the only qualifications
to be a prison guard are you have to be
working on a GED or better and no felony
convictions, you know, you get what you
pay for.
I want to do one last thing, rapid fire.
Maduro of Venezuela.
You know, I'm of two minds of Maduro.
First of all, it's very bad form to just
invade a country and snatch its leader
and then, you know, kill 80 people and
leave.
It's very bad form.
It's a violation of international law.
It is not a violation of US law. We've
had a law in the United States since
1985 allowing us to do exactly that,
thanks to the Kiki Camarena case. Um
I wouldn't I wouldn't have done it.
Maduro's, you know, not not a nice guy,
but this whole drug thing is grossly
overstated. You want to invade a
country, invade Mexico. That's where the
problem is.
Gaza.
Ah.
I stand wholeheartedly with the people
of Gaza.
Um the Israelis have
murdered and starved
as many people as they possibly could.
Listen, October 7th was a terrible,
terrible event. It was a terrorist
attack perpetrated by a terrorist group,
but your response can't be to kill
everybody.
Right? At least 70,000
people, almost all of whom have been
civilians and then mostly women and
children.
Okay, that's not a policy. That's
genocide.
And it's a violation of international
law. And who should know that better
than the Israelis?
And where do you think this ends?
I think with continued ethnic cleansing
of Gaza.
The policy is to drive them out, make
them emigrate and they don't care to
where, just get out and let Israeli
settlers resettle Gaza.
Last question, your favorite book.
It's it's a book that nobody's ever
heard of. It's called How Can I Keep
From Singing?
Uh it's it's the biography of Pete
Seeger,
the the folk singer.
Pete became, you know, besides my dad
and my grandfather, Pete was the most
important man in my life.
It's funny.
We
we exchanged Christmas cards for years
and then when I got in trouble, he
rallied to my to my support.
And
he said to me one time,
"You and I have the
we have the greatest differences in our
backgrounds.
Like what why what is it about me
that is attracting you?" And I said,
"Pete, you stood up to them.
In 1958, you stood up to them. All you
had to say is, 'On the advice of
counsel, I decline to answer your
question, Senator.'
And you didn't. You said, 'Based on the
First Amendment,
I don't have to tell you with whom I
associate.'
Everybody's pleading the Fifth, he
pleaded the First and they sent him to
prison for it. The it was overturned on
appeal,
but he wasn't afraid of them.
And so, I wanted to be like Pete.
Hey guys, that was a hell of a
conversation. I mean, John Kiriakou was
being super modest. He clearly is a guy
who was a star within the CIA on his way
to becoming director of the CIA one day
and ultimately ended up with a very
different life,
life in prison, life in infamy,
life restarting in many ways, uh but an
incredibly wise and insightful and
clearly skillful guy. As I told him
later on, maybe one of the best five or
six storytellers I've ever met and I've
[music] met some really good
storytellers. Hope you enjoyed this. Uh
hit us in the comments. Uh tell me what
you thought about this and whether or
not we should have more comments like
this. Um up next in the future, I've got
a former KGB spy who's going to stop by
the [music] Carlos podcast. You're not
going to want to miss that. See you
soon.